delegations from Israel and the United
States have arrived in Cairo in an
effort to salvage talks for a ceasefire
in Gaza a sticking point is Israel's
demand to control a strategic Corridor
in Gaza it comes as Israel holds
funerals for hostages killed in Gaza
earlier this week Israel recovered the
bodies of six captives who were being
held by Hamas which carried out the
October 7th attacks in Gaza Israel has
issued new evacuation orders for
residents in the southern city of K
yunes as its forces advance in the
region and journalist kareim elgohari is
a h joining me now on the line from
Cairo good to see you again uh
negotiations toward a possible ceasefire
have been ongoing uh this week we expect
official talks between Hamas and Israel
to be kicking off tomorrow has any
progress been made so
far uh not that we know uh to be honest
there's very little news leaking uh to
the media about this negotiations
Israeli negotiators reportedly already
arrived in
Cairo talks will start start between the
mediators the US and Egypt and is the
Israeli delegations later they will be
joined by a delegation from the other
mediator qar there is no word yet about
uh Hamas delegation yet but of course
they are briefed by the Arab mediators
the goal is is to resolve the
differences over this truce proposal to
end this 10 months War main sticking
points is the full withdrawal from the
Gaza Strip the full Israeli withdrawal
from the Gaza Strip or not until now
netan is trying to keep a presence of
the Israeli Army in the Philadelphia
Corridor that's the border between Egypt
and the Gaza Strip and at the so-called
narim Corridor that's a corridor that's
dividing uh the Gaza stri into a
northern and southern part yeah tell me
a little bit more I understand these two
strategic corridors have as you say been
a major sticking point in these
negotiations why is it so difficult for
all sides to find agreement
there well netan is trying to get a deal
on on a continuous presence in of the
Israeli Army in parts of the Gaza Strip
signed off by Hamas or there will be no
deal he says that until now is not
acceptable for Hamas who insists on a
full withdrawal of the Israeli troop
let's take the the Philadelphia Corridor
that's the border between Egypt and the
Gaza Strip according to reports in the
Arab press there is a new proposal uh
suggesting a un monitoring Mission
instead of the Israeli troops also maybe
the possibility that there will be a EU
a European Union Mission at the border
personing in
Rafa along with the Palestinian
authorities this according to this
reports the Israeli troops could then
gradually withdraw from the area but
there is a very very strong denial from
the office of Netanyahu about this
report mind you until now we don't have
any official copy about the so-called
briding proposal uh there's very few
official statements surrounding the
negotiations most of what we hear is
planted to the media by either Hamas or
Israel in order to strengthen their
negotiation position now just uh before
I let you go I just want to get some
clarity on this issue it is not just
Hamas also Egypt that does want Israel
to withdraw from the Philadelphia
Corridor can you explain why that
is well Egypt uh interprets the presence
of the Israeli Army at this Border strip
as a violation of the chem David peace
Accord that's the peace Accord signed
between Egypt and Israel 1979 the first
peace Accord between an Arab country and
Israel according to that uh this area
should be some kind of demilitarized
zone Egypt is arguing Egypt is also
denying the Israeli accusations that
there is smuggling of weapons through
these areas Egyptian is saying they
destroyed the tunnel that were existing
there and after all of that Egypt like
all other Arab states once an end of the
Israeli occupation not only in the Gaza
street but also in the West Bank so a
continued Israeli presence in Gaza would
enshrine this occupation and what Egypt
sees as a violation of international law
thank you so much as always for your
insights today that is journalist Kareem
elgohari in
Cairo you're welcome